## How To Pass GCP Associate Cloud Engineer Exam (to be precise, how I did it)

***

### Resources I have used and a brief description of them

### 1. Preparing for Google Cloud Certification: Cloud Engineer Professional Certificate

A specialization (MOOC) by Google Cloud Training (hosted by [Coursera](https://www.coursera.org/)) which contains 6
courses:

    - Google Cloud Fundamentals: Core Infrastructure
    - Essential Google Cloud Infrastructure: Foundation
    - Essential Google Cloud Infrastructure: Core Services
    - Elastic Google Cloud Infrastructure: Scaling and Automation
    - Architecting with Google Kubernetes Engine: Foundations
    - Preparing for Your Associate Cloud Engineer Journey

One of the best resources suitable for the complete beginners to learn cloud programming from scratch. Specialization
contains all the necessary details not only to pass the exam, but to get a solid foundation in cloud programming.

All the courses incorporates hands-on labs using Qwiklabs platform There are two enrollment options:

1. Monthly Subscription for $49 USD per month (as of March 2022). You get full access to the course materials, including
   Qwiklabs labs and all the assessments.
2. Or you can audit the course which gives you the possibility to access all the videos, but assessments and Qwiklabs
   labs are not included.

You can view the specialization [here](https://www.coursera.org/professional-certificates/cloud-engineering-gcp/)

### 2. [Udemy](https://www.udemy.com//) course GCP Associate Cloud Engineer - Google Cloud Certification created by [in28Minutes Official](https://www.udemy.com/user/in28minutes/) and [Ranga Karanam | GCP Certification - Google Cloud Engineer & Architect](https://www.udemy.com/user/cloud-and-full-stack-in28minutes-spring/)

Another beginner-friendly course which covers all the GCP resources necessary for the GCP Associate Cloud Engineer (and
I don't only mean clearing the exam). Teacher explains everything in a concise manner. There are a lof of quizzes
included, alongside with very useful resources.

Also, each section of the course includes demos from the instructor on how things should be configured on the GCP
platform. Demos include setting up (creating, updating, managing, deleting) resources using both console and a Google
Cloud SDK (Command-Line Interface For Google Cloud Platform Products & Services)

### 3. [Udemy](https://www.udemy.com//) course Docker & Kubernetes: The Practical Guide created by [Maximilian Schwarzm√ºller](https://www.udemy.com/user/maximilian-schwarzmuller/)

Containerization is one of the most important topics in cloud computing and in programming. Solid understanding of how
docker and kubernetes work is crucial, and I believe, it's mandatory also.

Maximilian is one of the best teachers online, he always explains everything in detail. At the end of the day there are
virtually no questions as he showcases all the possible scenarios and the ways how to handle each of them.

The course is absolutely beginner-friendly. You don't need to know anything regarding docker or kubernetes as every
little detail is covered from scratch.

### 4. Official Google Cloud Certified Associate Cloud Engineer Study Guide by Dan Sullivan (book)

Courses mentioned above are great for practicing technologies, but there is a lot of theory behind the scenes when it
comes to Google Cloud Platform. At least, I believe so. For me, it's hard to catch up with all the theory by just
watching videos. And I found this book very fascinating, probably, the most valuable resource while preparing for the
exam.

Book contains 18 chapters and covers all the necessary services for the exam, including theory, CLI commands and console
breakdown. Each chapter has its own summary and 'exam essentials' section. Also, there are mock tests with 20 questions
at the end of each section. You can find detailed explanations for the questions in the appendix of the book. Author
does a great job explaining why given answer is correct and also explanations about why other answers are falsy.

I would recommend this book for everyone. But, there is one downside. At the given moment, the latest edition of the
book dates back to 2019, so, there are some topics which are outdated. You can read official documentation of the Google
Cloud Platform alongside with this book, it will guarantee that you are up-to-date. Therefore, you can argue, that there
is no need for this book if you still read documentations. But, the thing is, documentations cover resources and
services in a great detail, so often going through all the documentation might be overwhelming and unnecessary.

